Installation Instructions
*************************

Copyright (C) 2009 by Xavier Maillard <xma@gnu.org>.

This file is free documentation; unlimited permission to copy,
distribute and modify it.

System Requirements
===================

Records has been succesfully used on GNU Emacs 22, GNU Emacs 23.

For installation, it requires at least the following program versions:

    - GNU autoconf 2.50 if sources taken from GNU Bazaar
    - GNU automake 1.9  if sources taken from GNU Bazaar
    - GNU make 3.81
    - GNU texinfo 4.13

On MS Windows, you need Posix programs for installation. These and other useful Posix utilities can be obtained from one of several projects:

Basic Installation
==================

The simplest way to build and install Records is:

    1. `cd' to the Records source directory. If you have taken Records
    from the Bazaar sources, type "./bootstrap" in order to get an
    up-to-date `configure' script.
    
    2. Type `./configure' to configure Records for your system.

    3. Type `make' to build the byte-compild Lisp files a well as the
    Info manual.

    4. Type `make install' to install the Records Lisp files and the
    Info manual.

    5. You can remove the byte-compiled Lispp files and the Info
    manual from the source directory by typing `make clean'. To also
    remove the files that `configure' created, type `make distclean'.

Installation Names
==================

By default, `make install' will install RECORDS's files in
'/usr/local/share/emacs/site-lisp' and `/usr/local/info'. You can
specify an installation prefix other than `/usr/local' by giving
`configure' the option `--prefix=PREFIX'.

            ./configure --prefix=/usr

If your installed copy of Emacs is named something other than `emacs'
or `xemacs', you will need to tell `make' where to find it so that it
can correctly byte-compile the Records sources.

For example, to for the use of XEmacs you might do this:

            ./configure --with-xemacs
   
You can even pass  the command to be called:

            ./configure --with-xemacs=xemacs21

The syntax of Records file names is different for GNU Emacs and
XEmacs. The Info manual will be generated for the Emacs flavor choosen
in the `configure' phase. If you want the other version, you need to
set the option `EMACS_INFO' to `make':
   
            ./configure --with-emacs
            make EMACS_INFO=xemacs

Also, the `--prefix=PREFIX' option to `configure' may not be general
enough to set the paths you want. If not, you can declare the
directories Lisp and Info files should be installed to.

For example, to put the Lisp files in `$HOME/elisp' and the Info file
in `$HOME/info', you would type:

            ./configure --with-lispdir=$HOME/elisp --infodir=$HOME/info

On MS Windows, given Emacs is installed at `C:/Program Files/Emacs', you should apply

            ./configure --with-lispdir='C:/Program Files/Emacs/elisp' \
                        --infodir='C:/Program Files/Emacs/info'
           
`make' supports the `DESTDIR' variale for staged installation (useful for distro packagers):
            
            make DESTDIR=/tmp install

Running `configure' might result in errors or warnings. The output
explains in detail what's going wrong.

In case of errors, it is mandatory to fix them before continuation.
This can be missing or wrong versions of `(x)emacs', (X)Emacs
packages, `make', or `makeinfo'.

Warnings let `configure' (and the whole installation process)
continue, but parts of Records aren't installed. This can happen with
missing or wrong versions of `texi2dvi' or `install-info'. Here you
can decide yourself whether you want to renounce on the related
feature ("records.dvi" file for printed output, Records entry in
Info's "dir" file), or whether you want to adapt your $PATH
environment variable, and rerun `configure'. An alternative is calling
the missed parts manually later on.

Suggestions/Bug Reports
=======================

Please fill all your suggestions for fixes, etc to
http://launchpad.net/~emacs+records/records
